the term double-jointed isn't actually a
scientific term you can't have two
joints in one spot even if your thumb
moves weird sometimes the scientific
term is hypermobility and anytime any
one of your joints goes further than the
average person's that's called
hypermobility hyper mobility and Hyper
Mobility simply put hyper Mobility is
above normal movement ability hey baby
girl how you
doing but anyway I'd like to show you a
t best that you or anybody else can try
to see if you're considered hyper Mobile
by the scientific and medical community
and you don't have to be nearly as
flexible or as mobile as me to be
considered hyper mobile or as most
people call it double jointed this video
was sponsored by me I have a second
YouTube channel that is devoted to
bringing you highquality follow along
videos If you want to get flexible and I
know attention spans are only getting
shorter and shorter but if you like to
read I also have a newsletter we are
dedicated to keeping your data safe and
the information we bring you is high
quality all the links are in the
description check it
out oh yeah where was I oh yeah this is
called the baiton score there is a total
of nine possible points and as an adult
if you score five points or more you
have generalize joint
hypermobility yeah pause if you need to
keep track of your points and we'll find
out who's hypermobile together on a flat
surface does your pinky Bend up to 90°
or more at a point for each side that
can do that with your wrists facing down
down can you touch your thumb to your
wrist at a point for each side that can
do that does your elbow go past 10° or
more when it is fully straight at a
point for each side that can do that and
when your knees lock out do they extend
past straight by 10 mine obviously don't
but by 10° or more if they do add a
point for each side and lastly can you
put your palms on the ground with your
knees completely straight if you can add
one more point for that one so how'd you
score I got seven which means even for a
child I'm still considered hypermobile
I'm so proud of that stay flexy wait
this isn't the end of the video maybe
I'll use that as a short but there is
one itty bitty problem when you get a
bait and score this High I knew you were
naturally flexible so I'll never be able
to get to your level you lied to us it
was just your genetics this whole time
who whoa who who hold the phone the
pinkies the thumbs the hamstrings those
are all completely trainable and
actually necessary for some sport back
when I first learned to do elid I could
only do it elevated so I legitimately
trained the extension of all my fingers
not just my pinkies when I first trained
to do a slow muscle up I trained my
false grip like this so that I could
pull myself up over the bar and if you
didn't know that flexed wrist really
helps with that thumb position and I
think it's pretty obvious that you can
train hamstring flexibility and if
you're like me you didn't just stop at
touching your toes and you started
training until you could go elbow to toe
and next head to
toe woo oh boy not there yet so just by
training those trainable skills the
finger extension the false grip and then
the hamstrings you can score Five Points
as an adult which is enough to be
considered hypermobile a lot of people
assume that testing positive on a baiton
score means you have a genetic condition
making you more flexible but correlation
does not equal causation that means that
just because somebody has chocolate on
their face doesn't mean they stole your
chocolate they could have just you know
had their own chocolate at home in my
case I obviously bought the chocolate
but sorry this isn't about chocolate in
the case of my flexibility it took an
incredible amount of training to get
there and I didn't always have it except
for the hyperextended elbows I always
had those but there are even more flaws
to this scoring system check it out meet
Bob the hypothetical fake guy I made up
Bob was born with slightly hyperextended
elbows and knees which happens to about
10% of the population as a child Bob did
Dance and Gymnastics which obviously
required a lot of flexibility training
so it's time to get his first bait and
score one point for each hyperextended
elbow one point for each hyperextended
knee and since he's trained flexibility
quite a bit one point for palming the
ground but his pinkies his thumbs his
wrists very stiff no points there that
means he got a total of five points
which if he was an adult would mean he
has hypermobility but I don't know if
you remember this is little Bob no
hypermobility yet so Bob graduates high
high school he stops doing Dance and
Gymnastics and he goes to college to do
Finance now it's time for baiton score
number two he still has hyperextended
elbows and knees but now he can no
longer Palm the ground and can barely
touch his toes since he stopped training
his hamstrings have become very very
stiff and like always his wrists his
thumbs his pinkies too stiff this means
as an adult he scores Four Points not
hypermobile but let's fast forward Bob
is in his 60s now baiton score number
three Bob can't even touch his toes
anymore he has carpal tunnel syndrome so
his wrists and fingers have only gotten
worse but he still has all those
hyperextended elbows and knees drum roll
please now at the age of 60 Bob has been
diagnosed with a hypermobility disorder
cuz you only need to score four points
if you're over the age of 50 to be
considered hypermobile so it's actually
possible to get stiff and stiffer
throughout your life then magically at
the age of 60 be considered
hypermobile huh yeah this system is not
perfect my point is a high bait and
score doesn't automatically mean that
you have a disorder making you more
flexible but it does mean you have
chocolate on your face again with the
chocolate it just means that you should
look into it but seriously the reason
others think people like Bob and I have
a tissue disorder making us more
flexible is because those people exist
yeah some people have tissue disorders
making them more flexible examples would
be EDS or 's downlo syndrome or hsd
which is hypermobility Spectrum
disorders and yeah I know I look super
guilty but the thing is is I don't have
any other symptoms that would signify me
having one of these disorders speaking
of which sometimes people with these
disorders like EDS or hsd don't even
have flexible joints they can have
flexible veins yes literally flexible
veins this usually results in something
called varicose veins which looks like
this and it can sometimes cause other
medical issues you ever get dizzy or
faint after getting up could be the pots
caused from the Eds or hsd oh my stomach
you have gastrointestinal or just tummy
issues it could be the
Eds tired all the time headaches always
dehydrated random pain you get my point
there are tons of symptoms that can come
with having a hypermobility disorder and
they usually do I originally wanted to
make this video to say see I'm just like
you but I trained flexibility more but
it seems kind of silly now because the
only reason why people think that is cuz
there's a huge misunderstanding with the
symptoms that come with hypermobility
disorders it's not all sunshine and
rainbows if you have tons of these
issues I recommend going to this website
it's where I got all of my data from if
you're struggling there's tons of
resources available for you and if
you're a normal person this is the only
flexibility video you will ever need to
watch it's pretty good stay flexy